<!-- Generated by documentation.js. Update this documentation by updating the source code. -->

## camelizePath

This utility convert a path to a camelCase dotted string.
Every parameter within the path will see the colon replaced with a dollar

### Parameters

-   `path` **[string][1]** A valid react router path

### Examples

```javascript
camelizePath('users/:id');
// users.$id
camelizePath('/users/all');
// users.all
```

Returns **[string][1]** camelizePath - a camel case dotted string representation of the path

## getPages

Utility to convert an array of routes configuration into a pages object.

```javascript
const routesConfig = [{ path: '/', component: Dashboard, alias: 'dashboard' }, { path: '/users', component: UserList }];
const pages = getPages(routesConfig);
// { dashboard: { path: '/' }, users: { path: '/users' } }
```

_Params_

`path` with params such as `/users/:id` will be added to `pages` with the colon replaced with the dollar sign.

_Alias_:

It is possible to duplicate a reference to a route called page alias.

`{string|array} alias` that can be set in each `route`.

Alias should not use dot (`.`) in their name unless you want to add at the root of the `pages` object,
in this case it will use it to traverse within the object to set the value.

> The base path `/` can be added to `pages` only if an `alias` exist.

### Parameters

-   `routesConfig` **([Array][2]&lt;[Object][3]> | [RoutesMap][4] \| [Map][5])** or routesMap - An array of routes configuration object or a routes map that will be translated into pages
-   `pages` **[object][3]** A pages object (optional, default `{}`)
-   `childKey` **[string][1]** When using a routes config, this will be the key used to find nested array of routes configuration object. (optional, default `routes`)

## getRoutesMap

This routeMap was created to store a map of all routes within applications.

It set routes into a RoutesMap. This map one path to a route configuration.

RoutesMap class extends from Map and has a modified get method that permit to get using `/users/1` and get `/users/:id`

The path can be seen as the id of the route, and the configuration is what is actually used for the route.

To set redirect route, just add from and to instead of path in the redirect route configuration

Before adding a route to the map, it will test if the route exist and if it exist, it will merge the configuration.

In non soft mode, it can throw error if the route already contain the component or is changing it's name within it's route configuration

> We use core-js/es6/map and core-js/fn/symbol/for for old browsers that does not support Map, see [https://www.npmjs.com/package/core-js][6] for more information.

### Parameters

-   `routesConfig` **[array][2]** A list of routes configuration object that will be flatten and set in the map
-   `routesMap` **[RoutesMap][4]** An optional existing routeMap (optional, default `newRoutesMap()`)
-   `options` **[object][3]** Options to configure getRoutesMap,
    if options.soft is true, it will skip all errors found during the merge,
    if options.soft is false, it will throw error if a route already:-   have a component and a second is found
    -   have a name and different name is found (optional, default `{soft:false,childKey:'routes'}`)

Returns **[RoutesMap][4]&lt;[string][1], [object][3]>** The routeMap object used for your application

## makeRoutes

This utility will check for routes configurations

```js
const { makeRoutes } = require('$PACKAGE_NAME/lib');
const Routes = makeRoutes([{ name: 'home', path: '/home', component: () => <div>Home page</div> }]);
<div>{Routes[0].props.name} is <code>home</code></div>;
```

### Parameters

-   `routesConfig` **([Array][2] \| [Map][5]&lt;[string][1], [object][3]> | [RoutesMap][4]&lt;[string][1], [object][3]>)** list of route configuration object, a map or a routes map
-   `childKey` **[string][1]** the children key used for flattening pages (optional, default `routes`)

### Examples

```javascript
const routeList = makeRoutes([{ name: 'home', path: '/home', component: HomePage }])
// return [<Route name="home" path="/home" component={HomePage} />]
```

Returns **[Array][2]** routeList - list of <Route /> and <Redirect />

## matchParamsPath

It will return true if the first path match the second path with params

```js
const { matchParamsPath } = require('$PACKAGE_NAME/lib');
<div>matchParamsPath('/users/1', '/users/:id'): {matchParamsPath('/users/1', '/users/:id').toString()}</div>;
```

### Parameters

-   `path` **[string][1]** The real path
-   `pathWithParams` **[string][1]** The path with params

### Examples

```javascript
matchParamsPath('/users/1', '/users/:id');
// true
matchParamsPath('/users', '/users/:id');
// false
```

Returns **[boolean][7]** Return true if the compare match

## RoutesMap

**Extends Map**

RoutesMap class extend Map class and has an edited get method to retrieve route from parameterized path.

Be aware that the `has` method will still check for the exact match.

See: [https://developer.mozilla.org/fr/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Objets_globaux/Map/get][8]

```js
const { RoutesMap } = require('$PACKAGE_NAME');
const routesMap = new RoutesMap([
 ['/', { name: 'Home' }],
 ['/users/:id', { name: 'EditUser' }],
]);
// get as usual (See https://developer.mozilla.org/fr/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Objets_globaux/Map/get)
const home = routesMap.get('/');
// get as usual
const editUser = routesMap.get('/users/:id');
// this is a valid path id
const editUserCc = routesMap.get('/users/1');
// this is invalid path id but RoutesMap can get it
<pre>
  routesMap.get('/users/1'):

  JSON.stringify(editUser, null, 2)
</pre>
```

### get

The get method can get a routes that use params using a path with params set.

#### Parameters

-   `key`  It can get from the usual key or a routes with params such as `/users/1`

Returns **V** The route configuration object of the route, or undefined if not found

[1]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/String

[2]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array

[3]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object

[4]: #routesmap

[5]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Map

[6]: https://www.npmjs.com/package/core-js

[7]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Boolean

[8]: https://developer.mozilla.org/fr/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Objets_globaux/Map/get
